=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Libp2p::Host - Modular P2P networking host

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Libp2p::Host;

    my $host = Libp2p::Host->new(
        port    => 4001,
        peer_id => $my_peer_id
    );

    # Register a protocol handler
    $host->set_handler( '/my-proto/1.0', sub ($stream) {
        $stream->write_msg( 'Hello, Peer!' );
    });

    # Connect to another host
    $host->dial( '/ip4/127.0.0.1/tcp/5001/p2p/Qm...', '/my-proto/1.0' )->then(sub ($ss) {
        $ss->read_msg()->then(sub ($reply) {
            say 'Peer said: '. $reply;
        });
    });

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Libp2p::Host is a libp2p-inspired networking host that manages multiple protocol handlers over shared, multiplexed
connections.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 C<new(%params)>

Constructor.

Expects the following params:

=over

=item C<port>: Local listen port (defaults to C<4001>).

=item C<address>: Local listen address (defaults to C<0.0.0.0>).

=item C<peer_id>: An object representing the local peer identity.

=back

=head2 C<dial($multiaddr, $protocol)>

Connects to a remote peer via a multiaddr string and negotiates the requested protocol. Returns a L<Future> resolving
to a L<Libp2p::Stream>.

=head2 C<set_handler($protocol, $callback)>

Registers a callback for an incoming protocol request. The callback will be passed a L<Libp2p::Stream> object.

=head2 C<tick($timeout //= 0)>

Drives the internal event loop for one iteration. Useful for embedding the host into another event loop or a manual
C<while> loop.

=head2 C<run_loop( )>

Enters the main event loop and runs until the program is terminated.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Libp2p::Stream>, L<Libp2p::Multiaddr>, L<Libp2p::PeerStore>

=head1 AUTHOR

Sanko Robinson <sanko@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2026 by Sanko Robinson.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the Artistic License 2.0.

=cut
