=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Libp2p::Loop - Internal event loop for Libp2p

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Libp2p::Loop;

    my $loop = Libp2p::Loop->get( );

    $loop->add_read_handler($socket, sub {
        my $data = $socket->recv( my $buf, 4096 );
        say 'Got data: ' . $buf;
    });

    $loop->timer(1.5, sub { say 'Tick!' });

    $loop->run();

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Libp2p::Loop is the internal event loop implementation for the C<Libp2p> stack. It is designed to be  minimal and
supports an optional L<Acme::Parataxis> backend for high-performance fiber-based concurrency.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 C<get( )>

Returns the singleton instance of the loop.

=head2 C<add_read_handler( $fh, $cb )>

Registers a callback to be executed when the filehandle is ready for reading.

=head2 C<remove_read_handler( $fh )>

Removes the read callback for the given filehandle.

=head2 C<add_write_handler( $fh, $cb )>

Registers a callback to be executed when the filehandle is ready for writing.

=head2 C<remove_write_handler( $fh )>

Removes the write callback for the given filehandle.

=head2 C<timer( $delay, $cb )>

Schedules a callback to be executed after C<$delay> seconds.

=head2 C<run( )>

Starts the event loop. Continues until C<stop( )> is called or all handlers and timers are cleared.

=head2 C<stop( )>

Signals the loop to stop after the current iteration.

=head2 C<tick( [ $timeout ] )>

Performs a single iteration of the event loop.

=head2 C<await( $future )>

Suspends the current context (fiber if using Parataxis, or blocks otherwise) until the given  L<Libp2p::Future> is
ready. Returns the future's result.

=head1 AUTHOR

Sanko Robinson <sanko@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2026 by Sanko Robinson.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the Artistic License 2.0.

=cut
