=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Libp2p::Stream - Duplex communication channel

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    my $stream = Libp2p::Stream->new(
        stream => $io_async_stream,
        loop   => $loop
    );

    $stream->negotiate( '/ipfs/kad/1.0.0' )->then(
        sub {
            $stream->write_msg( 'PING' );
            return $stream->read_msg( );
        }
    )->then(
        sub ($resp) {
            say 'Got response: ' . $resp;
        }
    );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Libp2p::Stream wraps a raw transport stream (like a TCP socket) and provides high-level methods for message-based and
binary-based communication.

It also implements the libp2p C</multistream/1.0.0> negotiation protocol.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 C<write_msg( $data )>

Writes a newline-delimited message, prefixed with its length as a varint. Returns a L<Future>.

=head2 C<read_msg( [ $timeout ] )>

Reads a newline-delimited message. Returns a L<Future> that resolves to the message string.

=head2 C<write_bin( $data )>

Writes binary data prefixed with its 16-bit length (network byte order). Returns a L<Future>.

=head2 C<read_bin( [ $timeout ] )>

Reads binary data prefixed with its 16-bit length. Returns a L<Future>.

=head2 C<read_bin_fixed( $len, [ $timeout ] )>

Reads exactly C<$len> bytes. Returns a L<Future>.

=head2 C<negotiate( $protocol )>

Performs multistream negotiation for the specified protocol ID. Returns a L<Future> that resolves to true on success.

=head2 C<close( )>

Closes the underlying stream.

=head1 AUTHOR

Sanko Robinson <sanko@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2026 by Sanko Robinson.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the Artistic License 2.0.

=cut
