=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Libp2p::Yamux - Yamux stream multiplexer constants and header handling

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Libp2p::Yamux;

    my $header = Libp2p::Yamux->build_header(
        Libp2p::Yamux::TYPE_DATA,
        Libp2p::Yamux::FLAG_SYN,
        1,   # stream ID
        1024 # length
    );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module provides constants and header parsing/building for the Yamux (Yet another Multiplexer) stream multiplexing
protocol.

L<Yamux|https://github.com/hashicorp/yamux> is a powerful stream multiplexer used in libp2p. It was initially developed
by Hashicorp for Go, and is now implemented in Rust, JavaScript and other languages. enables multiple parallel streams
on a single TCP connection. The design was inspired by SPDY (which later became the basis for HTTP/2), however it is
not compatible with it.

One of the key features of Yamux is its support for flow control through backpressure. This mechanism helps to prevent
data from being sent faster than it can be processed. It allows the receiver to specify an offset to which the sender
can send data, which increases as the receiver processes the data. This helps prevent the sender from overwhelming the
receiver, especially when the receiver has limited resources or needs to process complex data.

=head1 CONSTANTS

=head2 Message Types

The type field is used to switch the frame message type. The following message types are supported:

=over

=item * C<TYPE_DATA> (0) - Used to transmit data. May transmit zero length payloads depending on the flags.

=item * C<TYPE_WIN_UPDATE> (1) - Used to updated the senders receive window size. This is used to implement per-session flow control.

=item * C<TYPE_PING> (2) - Used to measure RTT. It can also be used to heart-beat and do keep-alives over TCP.

=item * C<TYPE_GO_AWAY> (3) - Used to close a session.

When a session is being terminated, the Go Away message should be sent. The Length should be set to one of the
following to provide an error code:

=over

=item C<0x0> Normal termination

=item C<0x1> Protocol error

=item C<0x2> Internal error

=back

=back

=head2 Flags

The flags field is used to provide additional information related to the message type. The following flags are
supported:

=over

=item * C<FLAG_SYN> (1) - Signals the start of a new stream. May be sent with a data or window update message. Also sent with a ping to indicate outbound.

=item * C<FLAG_ACK> (2) - Acknowledges the start of a new stream. May be sent with a data or window update message. Also sent with a ping to indicate response.

=item * C<FLAG_FIN> (4) - Performs a half-close of a stream. May be sent with a data message or window update.

=item * C<FLAG_RST> (8) - Reset a stream immediately. May be sent with a data or window update message.

=back

=head1 METHODS

Yamux uses a streaming connection underneath, but imposes a message framing so that it can be shared between many
logical streams. Each frame contains a header like:

=over

=item Version (8 bits)

The version field is used for future backward compatibility. At the current time, the field is always set to 0, to
indicate the initial version.

=item Type (8 bits)

=item Flags (16 bits)

=item StreamID (32 bits)

The StreamID field is used to identify the logical stream the frame is addressing. The client side should use odd ID's,
and the server even. This prevents any collisions. Additionally, the 0 ID is reserved to represent the session.

Both Ping and Go Away messages should always use the 0 StreamID.

=item Length (32 bits)

The meaning of the length field depends on the message type:

=over

=item Data - provides the length of bytes following the header

=item Window update - provides a delta update to the window size

=item Ping - Contains an opaque value, echoed back

=item Go Away - Contains an error code

=back

=back

This means that each header has a 12 byte overhead. All fields are encoded in network order (big endian).

=head2 C<build_header( $type, $flags, $sid, $len, [ $ver ] )>

Returns a 12-byte Yamux header.

=head2 C<parse_header( $bytes )>

Parses a 12-byte binary string into a hashref containing C<version>, C<type>, C<flags>, C<sid>, and C<length>.

=head2 See Also

L<https://libp2p.io/docs/yamux/>, L<https://github.com/hashicorp/yamux/blob/master/spec.md>

Returns C<undef> if the input is not 12 bytes long.

=head1 AUTHOR

Sanko Robinson <sanko@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2026 by Sanko Robinson.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the Artistic License 2.0.

=cut
