=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Libp2p::ProtoBuf::Message - Base class for Protocol Buffers messages

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    class My::Message : isa(Libp2p::ProtoBuf::Message) {
        field $id    : reader : writer(set_id);
        field $name  : reader : writer(set_name);

        __PACKAGE__->pb_field(1, 'id', 'int32', writer => 'set_id');
        __PACKAGE__->pb_field(2, 'name', 'string', writer => 'set_name');
    }

    my $bin = My::Message->new(id => 1, name => 'foo')->to_pb();
    my $msg = My::Message->from_pb($bin);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Libp2p::ProtoBuf::Message provides a base class and a declarative DSL for defining Protobuf messages using Perl's
C<class> and C<field> features.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 C<pb_field( $tag, $name, $type, [%options] )>

Defines a field in the message.

=over

=item * C<$tag>: The Protobuf field number.

=item * C<$name>: The name of the Perl field (and its default reader/writer).

=item * C<$type>: The Protobuf type (C<string>, C<bytes>, C<int32>, C<uint64>, C<message>, etc).

=item * C<%options>:

=over

=item * C<writer>: The name of the writer method to use during decoding (mandatory if the field doesn't have an lvalue-capable accessor).

=item * C<class>: The Perl class name for C<message> types.

=item * C<repeated>: Boolean indicating if the field is a list.

=back

=back

=head2 C<to_pb( )>

Instance method. Returns the binary Protobuf representation of the message.

=head2 C<from_pb( $data )>

Class method. Decodes binary data into a new instance of the message class.

=head1 AUTHOR

Sanko Robinson <sanko@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2026 by Sanko Robinson.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the Artistic License 2.0.

=cut
