=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

Libp2p::Security::TLS - libp2p TLS 1.3 security transport

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    my $tls_proto = Libp2p::Security::TLS->new(host => $host);

    # Secure an existing stream as initiator
    $tls_proto->initiate_handshake($stream)->then(sub ($secure_stream) {
        $secure_stream->write_msg( 'Encrypted data over TLS 1.3' );
    });

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module implements the libp2p security transport using TLS 1.3 as defined in the L<official
specification|https://libp2p.io/docs/tls/>.

It uses ephemeral Ed25519 keys for the TLS session and validates the peer's identity via a custom X.509 extension (OID
C<1.3.6.1.4.1.53594.1.1>) that contains the peer's libp2p public key and a signature.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 C<initiate_handshake( $stream )>

Initiates a TLS 1.3 handshake as the client. Returns a L<Libp2p::Future> that resolves to a
L<Libp2p::Security::TLS::SecureStream> object upon success.

=head2 C<handle_stream( $stream )>

Responds to an incoming TLS 1.3 handshake request as the server. Returns a L<Libp2p::Future> that resolves to a
L<Libp2p::Security::TLS::SecureStream> object.

=head2 C<secure_outbound( $stream, $expected_peer_id )>

Alias for C<initiate_handshake>. Provided for compatibility with standard security protocol interfaces.

=head1 SPECIFICATION COMPLIANCE

This implementation follows the strict requirements of the libp2p TLS spec:

=over

=item * Mandatory TLS 1.3.

=item * SNI is NOT used.

=item * Custom X.509 extension for identity verification.

=item * Signature verification of the C<subjectPublicKeyInfo>.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<IO::Socket::SSL>, L<Net::SSLeay>, L<Libp2p::Host>, L<https://github.com/libp2p/specs/blob/master/tls/tls.md>

=head1 AUTHOR

Sanko Robinson <sanko@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2026 by Sanko Robinson.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the Artistic License 2.0.

=cut
